how to start an email list from scratch
just using Instagram let's face it it is
so important for you to get people off
of your social media and onto your email
list if I've said it once I've said it a
100 times show me your email list and I
bet I can predict your
income all the time I will have coaches
or other entrepreneurs say to me like
why is it I can't sell my products why
is it my events aren't full why is it my
business is struggling and I'm spending
all of this time on social media and I
always say you're going to struggle if
your focus is growing your followers
without putting the majority of your
emphasis on using your social media to
grow your email list now listen I'm not
trying to toot my own horn I'm just
trying to tell you like if you want to
see this in action go to my Instagram
80% or more of my posts are specifically
designed to grow my email list why would
I let people show up and get to know
know me on Instagram and then just leave
them on Instagram that you really can't
get much value on Instagram Instagram is
like 2 to 5 seconds and I want to reach
that person who really wants more I want
to help them I want to deliver to them I
want them to be my customers so I've got
to figure out a way to serve them and
the best way to do that is by creating
an email list so I'm going to go through
the 10 steps very quickly if you're
starting an email list from scratch
first of all I want to commend you
because so many entrepreneurs don't do
this and then their account gets or
their account gets frozen or they
violate Community guidelines and
Instagram or Facebook doesn't even tell
them what they did wrong and then they
feel like their business is absolutely
stuck and they reach out to me and I'm
like dude I can't help you I hope you
have an email list so let's get to it
step one you've got to figure out what
it is you're going to give people of
value so that they want to give you
their email address we're going to do
that first before we even start talking
about Instagram so if someone is going
to give you their email address they're
going to do so because you're going to
give them something of value that thing
of value is sometimes called an ethical
bribe I think that's the dumbest thing
or a fremium a lead magnet an opin
whatever you call it it's something that
you're giving the person who's following
you on Instagram or Facebook or Tik Tok
you're giving them something of value in
exchange for their email address it's
how you're delivering this thing to them
because you can't deliver it to them on
Instagram so in
2024 the most common forms for most
entrepreneurs of freemium lead magnets
include webinars playlists PDFs video
series guide or ebooks master classes or
webinars free challenges email courses
meaning you're going to send them a
series of emails and in each email
you're going to explain to them the next
step shopping lists and newsletters now
I do have to say newsletters are
probably the least popular I mean think
about it when was last time you opened
up a newsletter unless somebody is known
for delivering an incredible newsletter
one great example is Tim Ferris like he
delivers every Friday an email I open it
like I don't know probably 30% of the
time that's that's pretty good and he he
just it it's got a consistent theme I
like to think I've got a great
newsletter it does really well our open
rate is super high but I don't sell in
it so my newsletter I have a a
consistent theme so I start with one
super cool thing that I found this week
it's usually like some kind of Amazon
Gadget then it's what what I'm watching
which might be love is blind or a
documentary series or um what I'm
listening to so that's usually an audio
book or it might be a podcast I just
like share Snippets and then the fourth
thing that I share is what I'm obsessed
with like what I'm talking about like
what I am on a rabbit hole what I'm
obsessed with and that theme for our
newsletter has done really really well
so our open rate is super high but
newsletters typically unless unless
people know like every week I'm going to
get something like really really good
because I think a lot of us have come to
expect that a newsletter is just going
to be like you're selling to me and we
just don't have time so unless you're
delivering like massive value and you
can convince your followers that you're
going to do that and you can prove that
to them um I I would suggest using one
of these other forms of lead magnets and
you're probably not sure which one of
these lead magnets is going to perform
the best for you don't guess you're
going to use Instagram to figure out
exactly which of these lead magnets is
going to perform the best for you we're
not going to guess we're going to go to
our Instagram stories we're going to
open it up and we're we're going to do
this poll probably a couple of times
over the course of the next month and I
just want you to ask your followers
think of the probably the four things
that you think they're going to want the
most from you like whether it's a
webinar a free challenge an ebook a
video series give them four choices and
let them decide according in one of the
poll stickers okay and just do that
repeatedly and you're going to get the
same answers and you're going to realize
like oh they're telling me exactly what
they want we're also going to use your
Instagram to figure out which topic they
are most interested in which topic are
they they going to be the most excited
about giving you their email address
okay so you want to give them some
options let's say for example you are a
health coach you could say to them which
of the four are you most interested in
how to plan high protein meals how to
fit your workouts in how to track your
Macros or whatever the four things that
you suspect people look to you for your
expertise and do that same poll a couple
of times because your audience is going
to tell you exactly what it is they want
from you and you need to listen
Instagram is like having I mean I can't
even tell you how valuable it is even if
you only get a couple of responses and
if you're saying to me right now shelene
I just can't even get people to respond
on Instagram it's conditioning you have
to get people used to it so if you're
not regularly posting polls if you're
not regularly talking to your audience
you need to back up and start with that
and be patient once we figured out which
topic we're going to deliver to them and
the form that we are going to deliver it
to them in whether it's webinar guide
book ebook whatever that's step one then
we're going to move on to step two step
two is writing the confirmation email
statistics show that the one email that
people are going to open from you is the
confirmation email so listen to what I'm
about to say because this is going to
like this is worth you subscrib ing to
build your tribe make sure that your
first email to them has in the subject
line confirmation email think about it
that's the email that we all open we
don't open up like the tricky subject
lines we're like confirmation what am I
confirming like I'm looking for my
confirmation people open their
confirmation email and statistics show
that people don't often open too many
emails after that for that reason you
want to write an amazing confirmation
email it needs to be short it needs to
be concise you need to deliver them the
thing that you promised them so for
example confirmation email confirmation
of your webinar registration
confirmation of your ebook confirmation
you can just put confirmation email then
you need to deliver what it was you
promised to them and here's my
recommendation this is something we
practice at Team Johnson and I swear to
God this is why our email list is so
good okay and I'm telling you this is
about thinking about psychology right so
when somebody has a problem and you have
the possible solution right and you're
you're saying like here here's this free
thing they know and you know that's
you're going giving them part of the
solution but it's free so it's not
obviously the whole solution but this
person has the problem and you have the
full solution so you would be a jerk not
to at least let them know hey by the way
this is like the free webinar but if
you're looking for more I also have
available for you blah blah blah blah
blah now the old way of doing this the
old school digital marketing
entrepreneurship kind of way was like
you're supposed to send like multiple
emails and warm them up and provide
value provide value provide value like
jab jab jab right hook or whatever that
book was by Gary Banner chuk but today I
don't know about you but I have a
problem today I need it solved today I
don't have time to open up four or three
or even two emails from you if you have
the solution give me the free thing and
just let me know that you have something
more so when we write our confirmation
emails it's here's your thing and it's
not a it's not a pushy sale we just say
PS or even by the way we also have
available for you blah blah blah blah
blah let me give you an example right
now I want you to open up your Instagram
okay I'm going to give you a second open
up Instagram I'm going to show you this
in action you're going to see exact
you're going to see exactly how we word
it everything open up your Instagram go
to Instagram stories and I want you to
just send me the phrase 55 stories
you're going to send me just this phrase
and you're going to see immediately
you're going to get a response from me
I'm using a program called many chat and
it's going to say like okay cool and I'm
going to prompt you to give me your
email address when you give me your
email address I'm going to send you 55
different ideas of things you can post
to your stories you're going to get an
email from me and in that confirmation
email not only am we going to give you
the 55 stories I'm also going to say hey
P.S if you need help growing on
Instagram uh we've got a great
membership site it's called insta
clubhub so if someone is struggling with
a problem for example they don't know
what to post to their Instagram stories
they've got that problem and I've got a
free solution but it's not the full
solution like there's so much more I
have to teach them and if I don't tell
them that I have that available to them
I risk them going to one of my
competitors who aren't as good or who
are even out of business or haven't
updated their membership site and don't
update it like on the weekly like we do
so that's being rude if I'm not telling
the person who just said hey I have this
problem I'm saying here's this free
thing if I don't tell them I have
something more for them I personally
think that's first of all it's a missed
opportunity and secondly you're kind of
wasting their time so don't be afraid
to put a PS or like just a soft mention
of the other solution even if it is a
paid option in your confirmation email
for the free thing that they just opted
in for number three you want to write a
follow-up sequence now you're like wait
a second sh how am I delivering all
these we're going to get there don't
worry but I want you to do these steps
first because it's going to make my uh
fourth step even e easier so your third
step is you want to okay you've sent
you've written that confirmation email
like here you go and I want you to write
three more follow-up emails these
follow-up emails should be first of all
you should anticipate that they didn't
open up the first one so in case you
missed it here's the blah blah blah blah
blah that you asked me for I wanted to
make sure you got it oh and by the way
and then give them another soft sell and
then maybe in these are just
hypotheticals and then maybe in your
third email you're saying to them hey I
know you opted in for my 55 stories on
Instagram that might be something you're
struggling with I wondered if this might
be helpful for you and you just give
them something of value and always for
me every single email in the PS I'm just
letting them know what's available to
them it's not a pushy sales email but if
they're reading all the way to the
bottom and they've gone through my
salutations the PS can at least tell
them another way that they can do
business with us and the fourth email
something along those lines now the
number one suggestion I can give to you
if you're not good at writing email copy
is create a fake email account we all
have them and just opt into a bunch of
other great marketers email sequences
like Amy Porterfield amazing at copy
Team Johnson I think we are amazing at
copy so you can opt into anything at
insta clubhub anyone who you're
following basically and you see that
they're offering something of value to
get your email address give them your
email address and not only will you get
that thing of value but you'll also see
how they sequence their follow-up emails
and then I save all of those in what I
call a swipe folder I save all of the
great emails from other marketers I save
them in a swipe file and I will just
chat GPT them oh my gosh chat GPT is
like mind-blowing oh you know who else
has great emails is Frank Kern like he
is the OG of great emails like when I go
to chat GPT I I will write a prompt like
write an email sequence
in the tone of shellene Johnson and
Frank
Kern like if shellene Johnson and Frank
Kern had a baby what would the email
copy look like it's a great prompt
before I give you my next tip I just
discovered that like 90% of the people
that watch our videos here on build your
tribe are not subscribed on YouTube what
it's free you know that right like it
doesn't cost you a dollar it's kind of
like a tip jar so if you're looking for
good karma I highly highly recommend if
you're really smart and I know you are
do you subscribe and also hit the Bell
notification that way you'll know the
next time we release a new episode step
four is select your CRM CRM stands for
customer relationship management it's
basically I don't know why we call it a
CRM we should just call it like an email
management system em email yeah we
should call it an EMS because that's
really what it is it's just a software
program SAS where you are paying for a
service that service allows you to
deliver things to your customers it
keeps track of all of your emails this
is not something you're going to do
manually and here's some advice I want
to give to all of you who are midlifers
all of you who are entrepreneurs who are
like I'm there's so much to be good at
there's so much to do and I suck at the
tech I'm I'm going to give you some
options okay and by the way most of
these companies offer like uh they offer
a free level which doesn't give you much
and then a pay level and then you know
the more people you have subscribing to
your email list it gets more and more
expensive but let me just tell you this
every penny you spend on your email list
is going to exponentially explode your
business I've
been screaming about this until I'm blew
in the face for the last 12 years 15
years and I I'm telling you it makes all
the difference in your bottom line stop
focusing so much on your social media
and start focusing on your CRM okay so
MailChimp HubSpot active campaign
Constant Contact send in blue get
responses too we use keep ke a p now I'm
just going to give you my two cents
worth I don't want to know how to do all
I don't want to know I don't need to
understand like how to hook things up I
don't I that Tech makes my head explode
I'll create the thing that we're
delivering to the customer I'll give you
the webinar I'll even write the ebook
but I want to connect any of that stuff
so we use keep because of their email
flows because of their ability to
segment their list because because they
have so many amazing amazing tools but
I'm not going to lie I'm going to be
very honest with you it's not something
you can figure out on your own so if you
have the mindset that like oh I I I'm
going to save money and figure out how
to do this myself then keep is not for
you it's for those of you who are
entrepreneurs and understand like oh
I'll hire someone to do that keep also
has a done for you service meaning they
have um what are they called I'm not
sure what they call them but they're
like basically people are certified in
keep and keep used to be infusion soft
by the way um and so you you when you
sign up with keep you can pay for it's
obviously an elevated service where one
of their qualified or certified people
sets all this up for you and they know
what you're they're doing and let me
just tell you even these free ones
they're nightmar
there something is always breaking and
it's so frustrating it's infuriating and
it's like this isn't what I was meant to
do so can I just really convince you
right now that even if you're doing one
of the free services let somebody else
set it up for you and if you're like I I
want the best and I want all the flows
and I want like I want what you guys are
doing at Team Johnson I'll put a link to
keep but I just want to be very clear
that keep the one that we use is not one
you can you you can set up on your own I
don't care how techsavvy you think you
are you're much better off using one of
their certified keep specialist Etc
anyways I'll put the link to all of
those Below in our show notes and having
a great CRM is very important step five
was to set it all up and hopefully I've
convinced you that that should be done
by someone other than you step six is to
start using your stories to convince
people to persuade people to entice
people to want to join your email want
to give you their email and exchange for
your free thing so if you watch my
Instagram stories and and really if you
look at any of my feed posts 80% or more
of my content on Instagram is directly
designed to get people on my email list
so one thing that I'll do is I'll say um
comment the word workout and then what
comment the word workout and I will send
you my YouTube playlist and literally
what I'm doing is using many chat which
is a thirdparty application approved by
Instagram I'm using men chat when they
comment the word workout they get a DM
that's designed by men chat that says
hey thanks for asking uh just drop your
email address here and I will quickly
right here in this chat send you my
YouTube playlist with my all of my
YouTube videos uh with my favorite
workouts it's that simple I'm keeping
people on the Instagram platform but I'm
also putting them in my keep uh
CRM on Instagram so it's it's c i want
you to look at my Instagram right now it
is crazy how
much Instagram and and this is free
literally I mean Instagram doesn't even
charge me for this I I I'll get like
2,000 comments 5,000 comments of people
commenting the word workout or um
hormones or whatever it is related to
Women's Health like that's what my
Instagram Niche is uh I don't usually
usually teach business on my Instagram
so go and take a look you will see I'll
get like four and 5,000 people
commenting that word those people are
then sent a direct message and if they
open that direct direct message they're
giving me their email address so every
single day if I'm going to post it's
going to be first and foremost to grow
my email list period end of subject my
number seven step for you is to plan at
least one time per day to post your
stories something that gets people
excited about that free thing that you
have to offer and encouraging them to
give you their email address there's
three ways you can do this number one
you can have them comment a word and
then you manually you personally send
them the link to your fremium the number
two way to do this is by using many chat
which is uh approved by Instagram they
comment a word and it automatically
sends them a correspondence as well as
the link to your fremium and the number
three way to do this is to post a a link
to your stories with the link directing
them to your lead magnet the number
eight step for you is to create
additional lead magnets now you've
created one you've connected to your CRM
you're promoting it on your stories
you're promoting on your feed post but
one is never enough you've got to create
more and more and more because your
audience gets fatigued of that same
offer so if I was always promoting the
same webinar they're like I already went
to it so you want to create new and
exciting offers for them and remember we
don't guess we ask our Instagram
following what it is they want and
that's what we give them my number nine
tip for you is to do collaborations like
working with other Instagram content
creators people you've got a
relationship with but maybe it's it's
related but you're not in competition
with each other so say for example I am
going to tag as a collaborator on my
post uh the gym where I work out and in
that post if they accept the
collaboration I'm going to get all of
their Instagram followers and all of my
Instagram followers but I've I've said
comment the word workout and now all of
those people on both posts are going who
comment workout which I'm going to get
some of their followers too are going to
go on my email list now why might
someone do that because they don't care
because they're like we don't care if
she gets YouTube subscribers or people
on her email list we want her followers
to see that we have a gym that she works
out with in Miami so you've got to think
kind of creatively like who you can
reach out to where they're going to be
like oh this is a win-win another
example might be I'm just going to use
my own cuz you know you're you're going
to have to think of how this relates to
you but like um I I recently started
using castor oil well if I reach out to
a castor oil company they've got like a
big following and I I want to talk to
them about the casor oil video that I
just did on YouTube which by the way I
did you can watch it right here so I I
could say to them hey I'm I'm going to
do this promotion to get people to watch
the Youtube video about casor oil the
cter oil company is like great that's
fantastic that's a win-win for us right
but I'm also at the same time growing my
email list and this is it's just it's
like it's amazing way without running
ads without having to spend a dollar to
grow your email list using Instagram and
my 10th and final way to grow your email
list from scratch using Instagram is to
invest in Instagram advertising now this
is not something I want you to try to
figure out yourself M no don't even
don't even this is if you have the
mindset and you understand I've got a
really small following on Instagram
shellene I'm just not going to get that
many people opting into my email list
great then spend your money wisely and
hire someone who runs Instagram ads to
drive traffic to your fremium on
Instagram stories on Instagram feeds I'm
telling you if it's making you money if
it's putting people onto your email list
that's going to make you money
and if they can do that for a very low
cost you have to factor in what is your
time worth how much time would it take
for you to build this huge Instagram
following true story true story I went
for a a a power walk with one of my
girlfriends the other day she is a
hundred
million earner in her business she is a
life coach and I looked at her Instagram
I'm
like how do you hear your customers cuz
like her Instagram is like crickets and
she goes cuz I said I thought you said
you get like almost all of your
customers on Instagram she's like yeah I
do I'm like H how because I looked at
her Instagram following it's like tiny
and she said advertising and you know
what she doesn't live her life creating
content so consider that it's a mindset
shift it's not for everybody but I love
it I love Instagram
advertising it's something that you you
just have to trust the process and find
a really good person I know you're going
to say shelene how do we find someone
who's really good at running social
media advertising on Tik Tok and on
Instagram well that's something that you
would like to learn more about I know
the experts comment below this video and
let us know that's what you would like
next on build your tribe and we'll bring
that person those people to you hey it's
my goal to be brief to be bright to make
it fun and then be done ladies and
gentlemen we're done let's keep this mic
down here so people can see how cute
this little collar is it's not even
attached I got an
Etsy that dry Farm wine champagne look
you can still see I'm wearing my I'm
wearing my workout pants on the
[Music]
bottom
yeah